README.md, before:

# PoseCNN: A Convolutional Neural Network for 6D Object Pose Estimation in Cluttered Scenes

Created by Yu Xiang at [RSE-Lab](http://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/) at University of Washington and NVIDIA Research.

### Introduction

We introduce PoseCNN, a new Convolutional Neural Network for 6D object pose estimation. PoseCNN estimates the 3D translation of an object by localizing its center in the image and predicting its distance from the camera. The 3D rotation of the object is estimated by regressing to a quaternion representation. [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.00199), [Project](https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/projects/posecnn/)

[![PoseCNN](http://yuxng.github.io/PoseCNN.png)](https://youtu.be/ih0cCTxO96Y)

### License

PoseCNN is released under the MIT License (refer to the LICENSE file for details).

### Citation

If you find PoseCNN useful in your research, please consider citing:

    @inproceedings{xiang2018posecnn,
        Author = {Xiang, Yu and Schmidt, Tanner and Narayanan, Venkatraman and Fox, Dieter},
        Title = {PoseCNN: A Convolutional Neural Network for 6D Object Pose Estimation in Cluttered Scenes},
        Journal   = {Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS)},
        Year = {2018}
    }

### Installation

1. Install [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/get_started/os_setup). I usually compile the source code of tensorflow locally.

2. Compile the new layers under $ROOT/lib we introduce in PoseCNN.
    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT/lib
    sh make.sh
    ```
3. Download the VGG16 weights from [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1UdmOKrr9t4IetMubX-y-Pcn7AVaWJ2bL) (528M). Put the weight file vgg16.npy to $ROOT/data/imagenet_models.

4. 
    ```Shell
      python setup.py build_ext --inplace
    ```
5. Compile lib/synthesize with cmake (optional). This package contains a few useful tools such as generating synthetic images for training and ICP.

   Install dependencies:
   - [Pangolin](https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin)
   - [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org)
   - [boost](https://www.boost.org/)
   - [Sophus](https://github.com/strasdat/Sophus)
   - [nanoflann](https://github.com/jlblancoc/nanoflann)
   - libsuitesparse-dev

   We use Boost.Python library to link tensorflow with the c++ code. Make sure you have it in your Boost. The tested Boost version is 1.66.0.

   Change hard coded pathes in CMakeLists.txt.

   The Pangolin branch I use: c2a6ef524401945b493f14f8b5b8aa76cc7d71a9

    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT/lib/synthesize
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    ```

    Add the path of the built libary libsynthesizer.so to python path
    ```Shell
    export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$ROOT/lib/synthesize/build
    ```

### Required environment
- Ubuntu 16.04
- Tensorflow >= 1.2.0 (1.8!!!!!!!) with -D_GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=0
- CUDA >= 8.0

### Running the demo
1. Download our trained model on the YCB-Video dataset from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UNJ56Za6--bHGgD3lbteZtXLC2E-liWz/view?usp=sharing), and save it to $ROOT/data/demo_models.

2. run the following script
    ```Shell
    ./experiments/scripts/demo.sh $GPU_ID
    ```

### Running on the YCB-Video dataset
1. Download the YCB-Video dataset from [here](https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/projects/posecnn/).

2. Create a symlink for the YCB-Video dataset (the name LOV is due to legacy, Learning Objects from Videos)
    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT/data/LOV
    ln -s $ycb_data data
    ln -s $ycb_models models
    ```

3. Training and testing on the YCB-Video dataset
    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT

    # training
    ./experiments/scripts/lov_color_2d_train.sh $GPU_ID

    # testing
    ./experiments/scripts/lov_color_2d_test.sh $GPU_ID

    ```

Commit message:

added info on how to run PoseCNN with ROS

README.md, after:

# PoseCNN: A Convolutional Neural Network for 6D Object Pose Estimation in Cluttered Scenes

Created by Yu Xiang at [RSE-Lab](http://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/) at University of Washington and NVIDIA Research.

### Introduction

We introduce PoseCNN, a new Convolutional Neural Network for 6D object pose estimation. PoseCNN estimates the 3D translation of an object by localizing its center in the image and predicting its distance from the camera. The 3D rotation of the object is estimated by regressing to a quaternion representation. [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.00199), [Project](https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/projects/posecnn/)

[![PoseCNN](http://yuxng.github.io/PoseCNN.png)](https://youtu.be/ih0cCTxO96Y)

### License

PoseCNN is released under the MIT License (refer to the LICENSE file for details).

### Citation

If you find PoseCNN useful in your research, please consider citing:

    @inproceedings{xiang2018posecnn,
        Author = {Xiang, Yu and Schmidt, Tanner and Narayanan, Venkatraman and Fox, Dieter},
        Title = {PoseCNN: A Convolutional Neural Network for 6D Object Pose Estimation in Cluttered Scenes},
        Journal   = {Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS)},
        Year = {2018}
    }

### Installation

1. Install [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/get_started/os_setup). I usually compile the source code of tensorflow locally.

2. Compile the new layers under $ROOT/lib we introduce in PoseCNN.
    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT/lib
    sh make.sh
    ```
3. Download the VGG16 weights from [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1UdmOKrr9t4IetMubX-y-Pcn7AVaWJ2bL) (528M). Put the weight file vgg16.npy to $ROOT/data/imagenet_models.

4. 
    ```Shell
      python setup.py build_ext --inplace
    ```
5. Compile lib/synthesize with cmake (optional). This package contains a few useful tools such as generating synthetic images for training and ICP.

   Install dependencies:
   - [Pangolin](https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin)
   - [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org)
   - [boost](https://www.boost.org/)
   - [Sophus](https://github.com/strasdat/Sophus)
   - [nanoflann](https://github.com/jlblancoc/nanoflann)
   - libsuitesparse-dev

   We use Boost.Python library to link tensorflow with the c++ code. Make sure you have it in your Boost. The tested Boost version is 1.66.0.

   Change hard coded pathes in CMakeLists.txt.

   The Pangolin branch I use: c2a6ef524401945b493f14f8b5b8aa76cc7d71a9

    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT/lib/synthesize
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    ```

    Add the path of the built libary libsynthesizer.so to python path
    ```Shell
    export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$ROOT/lib/synthesize/build
    ```

### Required environment
- Ubuntu 16.04
- Tensorflow >= 1.2.0 (1.8!!!!!!!) with -D_GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=0
- CUDA >= 8.0

### Running the demo
1. Download our trained model on the YCB-Video dataset from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UNJ56Za6--bHGgD3lbteZtXLC2E-liWz/view?usp=sharing), and save it to $ROOT/data/demo_models.

2. run the following script
    ```Shell
    ./experiments/scripts/demo.sh $GPU_ID
    ```

### Usage with ROS:
For using the PoseCNN as is, use the recognition_server.launch file, it will launch a service that publishes returns a vision_msgs::Detection3DArray.

For using the refined version, use the refined_server.launch file. It will also launch a service that returns Detection3DArrays. It also listens on /camera/... topics for messages and publishes the D3DArray if it receives messages.


### Running on the YCB-Video dataset
1. Download the YCB-Video dataset from [here](https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/projects/posecnn/).

2. Create a symlink for the YCB-Video dataset (the name LOV is due to legacy, Learning Objects from Videos)
    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT/data/LOV
    ln -s $ycb_data data
    ln -s $ycb_models models
    ```

3. Training and testing on the YCB-Video dataset
    ```Shell
    cd $ROOT

    # training
    ./experiments/scripts/lov_color_2d_train.sh $GPU_ID

    # testing
    ./experiments/scripts/lov_color_2d_test.sh $GPU_ID

    ```
